# Uploading and syncing files

Google Drive makes it easy to store and access your files online in the cloud,
allowing you to access them from any computer with an Internet connection. If
you upload files from compatible programs like Microsoft Word or Excel, you can
even edit them in Google Drive. Watch the video below to learn how to upload
files to Google Drive.

<iframe width="853" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/pgdwQJqybQc" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen="">
</iframe>

## Uploading files to Google Drive

Google Drive gives you 15 gigabytes (15GB) of free storage space to upload files
from your computer and store them in the cloud. There are two main types of
files you can store on your Google Drive:

- Files you can edit, like Microsoft Office files, PDFs, and other
  text-based files
- Files you cannot edit, like music, videos, compressed archives (.zip
  files), and most other files

Once you upload a file--no matter what type of file it is--you'll be able to
manage, organize, share, and access it from anywhere. And because the files on
Google Drive are synced across your devices, you'll always see the most recent
version of a file.

You can also preview many different file types, even if you don't have the
software required for that file on your computer. For example, you can use
Google Drive to preview a Photoshop file, even if Photoshop is not installed on
your current computer.

## Converting files to Google Drive formats

If you are uploading files you plan to edit online, you will need to convert
them to Google Drive format. Converting allows you to edit a file and
collaborate with others easily. Only certain file types--like Microsoft Office
files and PDF documents--can be converted to Google Drive formats.

Unfortunately, this conversion isn't always perfect. Depending on the level of
formatting used in the original document, the converted document could turn out
looking quite different, as shown in the example below.

Conversion changes aren't always just cosmetic--you may even lose information
from the original file. You should always review a file that's been converted
before sharing it with others. Remember, you always have the option to store
your files in their original file format if you'd prefer not to edit files
online.

# Uploading files and folders

It's easy to upload files from your computer to Google Drive. If you're using
the [Google Chrome][1] web browser, you can even upload entire folders.

## To upload a file:

1. From Google Drive, locate and select the New button, then select File upload.

    ![Uploading a file. ][2]

2. Using the Open dialog box, find a file you want to open, and press **Enter**
   on it to open it. You can select multiple files.

    ![Locating file.][3]

3. The file(s) will be uploaded to your Google Drive.

    ![File in Drive.][4]

## To upload a folder:

**Note**: This feature is only available if you're accessing Google Drive
through Google Chrome.

1. Press the New menu button, then select Folder upload.

    ![Upload folder to Drive. ][6]

2. Locate and select the folder you want to upload, then click Open. On Windows,
   select the folder, Tab to the folder name edit field, and press **Enter**.

    ![Browsing for a folder.][7]

3. The folder and the files within it will be uploaded to your Google Drive.

    ![Folder on Drive.][8]

# Converting files to Google Docs format

When you upload certain types of files--such as Microsoft Office files or PDF
documents--you'll only be able to view those files. If you want to edit
these types of files in Google Drive, you'll need to convert them to Google Docs
format.

## To convert a file:

1. Locate and open the file you want to edit.

    ![Selecting a file to convert. ][9]

2. A preview of the file will appear. Select Open.

    ![Preview of the converted file.][10]

3. The file will be converted to a Google document and appear in a new tab.

    ![The converted file open in Google Docs.][11]

4. If you go back to your Google Drive, you'll see that there are now two copies
   of the file: the original file and the new version in Google Docs format.

    ![][12]

You can set Google Drive to convert your files automatically when you upload
them. Press the More button, select Settings, then check the box next to
"Convert uploads."

    ![][13]

# Challenge!

1. Open Google Drive and upload a Microsoft Office file. If you don't
   have an Office file on your computer, you can download a copy of our
   [example][14].
2. Convert your file to a Google document.
3. If you used our example file, your screen should look something like this:

    ![Converted practice file][15]

[1]: <http://www.gcflearnfree.org/chrome> "About Google Chrome" [2]:
<https://media.gcflearnfree.org/content/55e069701496fdb039ceeed1_01_17_2014/file-upload1.jpg>
"Uploading a file. " [3]:
<https://media.gcflearnfree.org/content/55e069701496fdb039ceeed1_01_17_2014/select-upload-file_60.jpg>
"Locating file." [4]:
<https://media.gcflearnfree.org/content/55e069701496fdb039ceeed1_01_17_2014/doc-uploaded-to-drive_2.jpg>
"File in Drive." [5]:
<https://media.gcflearnfree.org/content/55e069701496fdb039ceeed1_01_17_2014/drag-drop-doc.jpg>
"Drag and drop file into Drive. " [6]:
<https://media.gcflearnfree.org/content/55e069701496fdb039ceeed1_01_17_2014/folder-upload.jpg>
"Upload folder to Drive. " [7]:
<https://media.gcflearnfree.org/content/55e069701496fdb039ceeed1_01_17_2014/select-folder-upload.jpg>
"Browsing for folder. " [8]:
<https://media.gcflearnfree.org/content/55e069701496fdb039ceeed1_01_17_2014/folder-on-drive.jpg>
"Folder on Drive. " [9]:
<https://media.gcflearnfree.org/content/55e069701496fdb039ceeed1_01_17_2014/convert-file-select.jpg>
"Selecting a file to convert. " [10]:
<https://media.gcflearnfree.org/content/55e069701496fdb039ceeed1_01_17_2014/open-with-google-docs.jpg>
"Preview of the converted file. " [11]:
<https://media.gcflearnfree.org/content/55e069701496fdb039ceeed1_01_17_2014/finish-conversion.jpg>
"The converted file open in Google Docs." [12]:
<https://media.gcflearnfree.org/content/55e069701496fdb039ceeed1_01_17_2014/file-copy.jpg>
[13]:
<https://media.gcflearnfree.org/content/55e069701496fdb039ceeed1_01_17_2014/settings-convert-upload.jpg>
[14]:
<https://media.gcflearnfree.org/content/55e069701496fdb039ceeed1_01_17_2014/googledrive_uploading_practice.docx>
[15]:
<https://media.gcflearnfree.org/content/55e069701496fdb039ceeed1_01_17_2014/google_drive_uplaod_convert_edit.png>
