Lesson 2: Basic editing 
=======================

In this lesson, you'll learn how to:

-   Move around a document

-   Using quick movement commands

-   Using the Menu Bar

-   Searching for commands

Move around the Document 
------------------------

Google Docs is similar to other word processing programs you've probably
used in the past, whether that be Microsoft Word, Apple Pages, Keysoft
Word Processor, HIMS word processor, LibreOffice, or Scrivener. This
means that, while more advanced features are slightly different, you
don't have to fear that the basics are much different than any other
text editor.

Create a new document, using the steps you learned in lesson one, and
type some text. Now, use the arrow keys to move around the document. You
can select parts of a file, just as you do in other edit fields. You can
copy, with **Control + C** on Windows in ChromeOS, or **Command + C** on
Mac, cut with **Control + X** or **Command + X**, paste with **Control +
V** or **Command + V**, and so on. You can Undo, Redo, insert a link,
make selections italic, bold, underlined, superscript, subscript, and a
lot more.

Note that some actions are done to a character or word, like italics and
bold, and some to a whole paragraph, like making a heading or list. for
more keyboard commands for editing, see [[this comprehensive
list]{.ul}](https://support.google.com/docs/answer/179738?co=GENIE.Platform%3DDesktop&oco=1).

Now, move to the top of your file, with **Control + Home** on Windows,
or **Command + Up Arrow** on Mac, or **Search + Up Arrow** on ChromeOS.
Make a new line, press **Up Arrow** to go to the new line, and type a
heading for your document. These are useful, both for sighted people to
read, and for our navigation. Having headings where needed can make
navigating your document much faster. See this document for a good
example of how headings can be used. For example, at the top of this
document, there is the "Lesson 2: Basic editing" heading. This heading
is at level one, meaning that it is the most important heading, and will
be the first point of interest for sighted people.

Headings can be used in a few ways. For books, for example, heading one
is the Title, and heading Two are the chapters, and heading three could
be sections. In an academic paper, heading one could be the title,
heading two the sections, heading three the subsections, and so on.

To create a heading, after typing one for your document, press **Control
+ Alt + 1** on Windows or ChromeOS, or **Control + Command + 1** on Mac.
You now have your first heading.

Using Quick Movement commands 
-----------------------------

You have your first heading, and you may create many more if you like,
but your document could get very long, in the case of a book, so
navigating between headings will become important. Even for smaller
documents, like this one, navigating between headings allows me to check
the veracity of what I write, or fix small mistakes. Now, let's learn
how to move around these headings. We'll have to take a little detour to
Windows stuff, but it'll be easy and quick.

If you use the NVDA screen reader, you may want to make one change. The
command to start NVDA is usually **Control + Alt + N**, but the people
who built screen reader mode into the Google Docs use that command for
the "next" command. So, we need to change NVDA's shortcut key to
something that doesn't conflict with Google Docs' screen reader mode. If
you do not have NVDA installed, you don't have to worry about this, but
even if you use JAWS, but still have NVDA installed, you'll need to
change the shortcut to use these commands.

If you are on a public computer, like a workstation in the Assistive
Technology classroom, do not attempt to change the NVDA startup command.

To change the shortcut key, do this:

-   Press **Windows + D** to go to the desktop.

-   Press "n" to find the "NVDA" icon.

-   Press **Alt + Enter** to open the "properties" dialog.

-   Press **Tab** until you hear "hotkey field".

-   Press a different shortcut key than **Control + Alt + N**. Google
    > recommends **Control + Alt + Backslash**, but **Control + Alt +
    > Shift + N** may work just as well.

-   Press **Tab** until you hear "ok" button, and press **Enter**.

-   you may be placed into a dialog asking for administrative consent to
    > change this. Press **Enter**.

If NVDA is not on your desktop, there isn't much that can be done to
change the command, however there are other ways of using the quick
navigation commands.

On a Mac, use **Control + Command + N then (character)** or **Control +
Command + P then (Character)**. For example, to go to the next heading,
press **Control + Command + N, H**.

Note that you must continue holding down the modifier keys when pressing
N or P, then the character. This applies to all operating systems. If
you are an Emacs user, you cannot let go of the modifier keys, even
after you press the prefix key.

If you cannot change the NVDA Startup command, press **Alt + A** in your
document, and arrow to the item type you want to navigate by, press
**Right Arrow**, then choose either "next" or "previous" item type. For
example, to navigate to the next heading, press **Alt + A, H, N**. This
can become pretty quick, and also requires less holding down of keys.

Using the Menu Bar 
------------------

The Menu Bar is a line of items at the top of the Google Docs window. It
includes:

1.  **File**

    1.  Manage your document, including sharing it with others,
        > downloading it as a traditional document type, sending it via
        > email, renaming it, publishing to the web, or moving it to the
        > trash.

    > **Edit**

    1.  Undo, redo, find, and other editing commands.

    > **view**

    1.  control layout, mode of editing, and show and hide different
        > parts of the visual interface.

    > **Insert**

    1.  Insert images, links, footnotes, horizontal lines, tables of
        > contents, ETC.

    > **format**

    1.  Format text, paragraphs, or add headers and footers and bulleted
        > or numbered lists, or change alignment or line spacing.

    > **tools**

    1.  Spelling and grammar, word count, reviewing edits, preferences,
        > accessibility settings, and more.

    > **addons**

    1.  If you've installed addons to Google Docs, these show up here.

    > **help**

    1.  Search commands, help topics, training, updates, reporting bugs.

    > **accessibility**

    1.  speaking information, quick jump commands, and showing of live
        > edits from collaborators.

In Google Chrome, press **Alt + F** to access the "file" menu. From
there, right arrow through the other menu bar items, like Edit, View,
Format, and Tools. Once you get to the menu you want, press **Down
Arrow** to navigate between the menu items. If an item has a "right
pointing pointer" or a "Submenu" after it, press **Right Arrow** to move
into that submenu. To exit the submenu, press **Left Arrow**.

In Firefox or other browsers, press **Alt + Shift + F** but then follow
the steps after that to access the menu bar. On a Mac, with VoiceOver
on, press **VO + Tab** to send the next key command to Safari, then
press **Control + Option + F** to go to the file menu. For Chrome
devices, just use **Alt + F** to go to the file menu.

Searching for commands 
----------------------

To search for commands, press **Alt + Slash** on Windows, or **Command +
Slash** on Mac. Navigate to the search edit field if needed, and type
the command name or category that you're looking for. For example, link.
When you've typed what you want to search for, press **Enter**. Search
results will appear, which you can navigate with the arrow keys. If you
cannot, turn on your screen reader's forms or browse mode, use the arrow
keys to read the results, the turn it beck off to interact with the Docs
app when you press **Escape** to close that dialog box. Try using the
Search Commands system to find the key command to insert a link.
