[]{#anchor}[]{#anchor-1}[]{#anchor-2}Cleaning up Your Document

Now that you know how to add and edit your document, we'll cover how to
clean up any misspellings, wrong word choices, and grammar problems.
[]{#anchor-3}[]{#anchor-4}

[]{#anchor-5}Spell checking

To check for misspelled words, on Windows, press **Control +
apostrophe**. On Mac, press **Command + apostrophe**. To search
backward, press **Control + Semicolon** on Windows, or **Command +
Semicolon** on Mac. Google Docs automatically performs spell-checking on
the document, so you don't have to press F7. When you find a spelling
error, open the Google Docs context menu, with **Control + Shift + X**
on Windows, or **Command + Shift + X** on Mac. Arrow to the suggestion
that you want, and press **Enter** to correct it. Note that Google Docs
checks grammar as well as spelling, so move to the next or previous
error will move to both spelling and grammar errors. Note also that
Google Docs is just a computer program, and its algorithms for spelling
and grammar checking are not perfect; no machine can equal human
understanding of language, so do not automatically accept Google Docs'
corrections without considering their context.
[]{#anchor-6}[]{#anchor-7}

***Find and Replace ***

To find content in your document, press **Control + F** on Windows, or
**Command + F** on a Mac. Type what you want to find, and either press
**Escape** when it is found (Docs will search as you type), or **Enter
to search again. To find and replace, press \*Control + H** on Windows,
or **Command + Shift + H** on Mac. Now, type what you want to find in
the "find" field, what you want to replace it with in the "replace"
field, then use the buttons passed those fields to control the process,
and **Escape** when you're done.
