# Lesson 2: Navigating the Windows Desktop

In this lesson, you’ll learn about the layout of the Windows Desktop,
and how to navigate around it using NVDA.

## But what is the Windows Desktop?

Imagine your computer screen is like a desk where you work. The Windows
Desktop is the main surface of this desk. Just like you might have
various items on your desk, like a lamp, notepad, or a bottle of water,
the Desktop has icons. These icons represent different things you can do
on your computer, such as opening programs or files.

The Windows Desktop contains:

- **Desktop Background:** Think of this as the surface or wallpaper of
  your desk. It’s the backdrop for everything else.

- **Icons:** These are like the items on your desk. Each icon is a small
  picture that represents a program, file, or folder. Opening an icon is
  like picking up an item on your desk to use it.

- **Taskbar:** This is a horizontal strip along the bottom of the
  screen, similar to a drawer in your desk where you keep your most-used
  tools. It shows icons for programs you use often and any programs you
  currently have open.

- **Start Menu:** This is like a big filing cabinet. It contains all the
  programs and files on your computer, neatly organized. You can open it
  by clicking the Start button on the taskbar or pressing the Windows
  key on your keyboard.

- **System Tray:** This section is a part of the taskbar. It is located
  at the bottom right of the screen. Think of this like a toolbox on
  your desk. The system tray contains the current date and time,
  internet settings, volume, notifications, and more.

## Keyboard Shortcuts

Keyboard shortcuts are combinations of keys on the keyboard being
pressed at the same time. They are used to navigate and interact with
everything on the screen using a screen reader. In this lesson, we will
cover the keyboard shortcuts used to navigate around the desktop.

- You can use the **Tab** key to sift through the difference sections of
  the desktop.

- Pressing the **Windows key** will take you to the Start menu.

- Pressing **Windows key + D** gets to the desktop.

- **Windows + T:** Goes to the taskbar

- **Windows + B:** Navigates to the system bar

## Try It Now!

Now let’s explore around the desktop! When you turn on your computer,
the desktop will be the first thing displayed. The first thing to do is
start NVDA. You start NVDA by holding down the Control and Alt keys, and
with those keys still held down, hit the “N” key and release all the
keys. A musical sound will play, indicating that NVDA has been loaded.

Using the keyboard shortcut to get to the desktop, hold down the Windows
key and, with that key held down, press the letter “D” and release both
keys. This will take you to the desktop. You will hear NVDA say
something like “Folder view list, Recycle Bin not selected…”. This is
the Recycle Bin icon on your desktop. You can use the arrow keys to go
through the different icons on the desktop. Try that now.

Next, hit the Tab key on your keyboard. This will take you through the
different parts of the desktop one by one. Listen carefully to what NVDA
reads out to you. You can also use the keyboard shortcut Shift + Tab to
go backwards on the desktop.

Now use the **Windows key + T** keyboard shortcut to get to the taskbar.
NVDA will read the name of the first program that is on the taskbar. For
example, you will hear something like “File Explore button File Explorer
pinned”. Here, you can use the left and right arrow keys to go through
everything that’s on the taskbar.

Next, use the keyboard shortcut **Windows key + B** to navigate to the
system tray. You will hear NVDA say “Show hidden icons button”. Now use
the left and right arrow keys to explore what is on the system tray. You
will hear options for network settings, volume control, battery status
(if you are using a laptop), the time and date, and finally, the
notifications button.

Exploring around the desktop with these new keyboard commands may seem a
bit intimidating at first, but the more you practice these shortcuts,
the more comfortable you will be at navigating your computer with ease.

## Summary

In this lesson, you’ve learned what the Windows Desktop is, and a few
keyboard shortcuts to navigate around it. Now it’s just the matter of
practicing these keyboard shortcuts until mastery.
