# Lesson 1

## Introduction

Welcome to the NVDA Basics course. In this course, you will learn how
to use the NVDA screen reader. This course will be useful for people
who have used other screen readers in the past, and for those who have
never used a screen reader before.

### How to use this course within Moodle

This course is divided into lessons. To navigate to the next lesson,
press the **tab** key until you hear “lesson 2” or whichever lesson
number is after the current lesson, and press **enter**. If you have
read passed that point, press **Shift + Tab** to move backward through
the items on the page.

After the next lesson loads, press “h” to move by headings until you
find the beginning of the lesson, then use **Insert + Down Arrow**,
hold Insert and press Down Arrow then release both keys, to begin
reading the next lesson.

### About NVDA

NVDA, [NonVisual Desktop Access](https://www.nvaccess.org), is a
[Screen reader](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Screen_reader) for the
Windows operating system. It uses Windows' text-to-speech features and
system accessibility tools to read textual content from the computer
screen. This does not mean that everything on the screen will be read,
however. Pictures which are not described by text, or videos and any
program which does not comply with Windows [accessibility
standards](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/accessible-apps)
will not be made accessible with NVDA.

### Downloading NVDA

You can download NVDA from the [NvAccess download
page](https://www.nvaccess.org/download/). Choose to either donate, or
not to, this time, to download NVDA. Once downloaded, run the file,
and NVDA will start alongside the installer, to help you install it,
and so that you can get a chance to try it out without installing it
first. If you're already running a screen reader, close it before
running the NVDA installer.

Accept the license, and choose “install NVDA onto this computer.” NVDA
will install, and once finished, the installer will close and NVDA
will start.

Once NVDA starts for the first time, an introduction dialog box will
open, telling you about some keyboard commands, and giving you options
on keyboard layouts. If you are using NVDA on a workstation at
Gentry's Assistive Technology program, NVDA is already installed, and
the welcome dialog box will not open when you start NVDA.

### Starting NVDA

When you first turn on your personal computer, or sit down at a public
workstation with NVDA installed, it probably will not be on when the
computer starts, unless it has been configured to be so. This means
that you will need to know how to start it manually. If you are using
a computer at Gentry's Assistive Technology department, do not alter
settings or configurations unless instructed to do so.

To start NVDA manually, hold down the Control and Alt keys, press the
letter “n”, then release all keys. A musical tone will play, and NVDA
will be loaded and ready for use.
