## Lesson 2.2

When most people think of the Internet, the first thing they think about
is the World Wide Web. Nowadays, the terms “Internet” and “World Wide
Web” are often used interchangeably---but they're actually not the same
thing.

-   The Internet is the physical network of computers all over the
    world.
-   The World Wide Web is a virtual network of web sites connected by
    hyperlinks (or "links"). Web sites are stored on servers on the
    Internet, so the World Wide Web is a part of the Internet.

### HTML

The backbone of the World Wide Web is HTML files, which are
specially-formatted documents that can contain links, headings, lists,
tables, as well as images and other media. All web browsers can read
HTML files.

![Image of HTML
code](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/kUEFOn9mvXcWzX3bJttJ3HobWqIhrmM1vUDQxQskNRNpVNtc-nRG7ikmjnmZNRuDrXMKjjGvdN1U9aijZfgVvXHaPoPeaIbpSOzLUYVqL51JmNpidh0cBO6GsyTYrBr9KHiQUn8)

#### HTML Example

``` html
<h1>This is an example heading at level one.</h1>
<p>This is an example of a paragraph. The less-than and greater-than
symbols enclose a <i>tag</i>, and the slash in the enclosure shows the
ending of any tag that opens and closes, like the paragraph and italics ones.</p>
<ul>
<li>This starts a list. This is an unordered list, with list
items.</li>
<li>This is just another list item.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Heading level two</h2>
<p>Headings are created using H1, H2, H3, ETC., tags.</p>
```

#### Results of example

<h1>This is an example</h1>
<p>This is an example of a paragraph. The less-than and greater-than
symbols enclose a <i>tag</i>, and the slash in the enclosure shows the
ending of any tag that opens and closes, like the paragraph one.</p>
<ul>
<li>This starts a list. This is an unordered list, with list
items.</li>
<li>This is just another list item.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Heading level two</h2>
<p>Headings are created using H1, H2, H3, ETC., tags.</p>

------

To learn more about HTML, see [This
introduction](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_intro.asp). To learn
to write HTML and how to develop web apps and sites, see [Free Code
Camp](https://www.freecodecamp.org).

### URL

To get to a web page, you can type the URL (Uniform Resource Locator) in
a browser. The URL, also known as the web address, tells the browser
exactly where to find the page. However, most of the time, people get to
a web page by following a link from a different page or by searching for
the page with a search engine.

![Image of An example of a
URL](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/gTCzItbEZC7_EmI7tJNUCYxTkBt-PKlKppKLKnMami5ZtJstN_pzxMWVXPfvB7F6k9UzFF7PD27oKdi41FYm2uC1IDYpc-bPRNgt1h1XWSXYw-K5SpVGAqt2ZqsHN3__K3DWiww)

An Example of a URL
is:

<https://moodle.alassist.us/mod/page/view.php?id=1323>

"HTTP" tells the browser that the Hyper Text transfer Protocol will be
used to fetch the web page. "WWW" is not needed usually, but is there
because it has always been there. "moodle.alassist.us" is the web
address. After the slash is the path, or sometimes instructions, to
get to the desired page. The web server follows the path or
instructions to get to the desired page, then sends that page back to
the user's web browser.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The World Wide Web was created in 1989 by Tim Berners-Lee, a software
engineer. Before then, computers could communicate over the Internet,
but there were no web pages.

[Move on to lesson 2.3](https://moodle.alassist.us/mod/url/view.php?id=2628)