# Lesson 2.3

## With a Web Browser

The World Wide Web began as a sort of library of information which was
best suited for learning and research. In other words, most people used
the web for just reading information. Today, the average user has the
ability to shape the web by adding to it.

Blogs allow anyone to be a writer or journalist. With sites like [
blogger.com](http://www.blogger.com/), you can create a blog for free
and add your thoughts to it whenever you want. You don't need to know
HTML to create a blog---the technical stuff has already been created for
you.

![Image of An example of a
blog](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/uqIy1SnXXPkKv3Li-Jc1chYGVnvZOM44kTme8kfgtrQgXsNzgsKG5Jjq6LnXffeEwrQsbRadg23DRyue1sCbPHsUOfunXg8adXcdXwYnvjKxiCxbEoTdFC6DOL5lsmWvMrz9w5M)

Many websites are used as a means for staying in touch with friends,
family, and business contacts. This is known as social networking. With
sites like Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn, you can create an online
profile with information about yourself, as well as pictures and videos.
You can send notes to your friends, receive reminders about your
friends' birthdays, and more.

![Facebook allows you to post your
thoughts](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/Z2ngiBt-qsrZg6PXSGXsLzr8r1S87r1dXQ2zfi-rlWrfuGF1bU2b8MmDeV1k5A9IlZyvBW98KOMGuSnC3fQSKgXZtWhF5jTqV3KVyMYifUXd4kfu3eKPyr7ZYMPrDdVEJ1zOb80)*

## Without a Web Browser

Communication over the Internet is not limited to web browsers. Instant
messaging programs allow you to have conversations with your friends or
just write them a quick note. ![Image of Instant
Messaging](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/lOK1LbnyNEuXlGu4Jwqb0ZaQlTOErpezNM6pPEepHIgEDM3toWzquvpRHGu0Wr3BGZuHWHJdYHrAZ9kaowEeVqxn-WPpPov97VoOFi-_-2pdvVGMjEkHaVC_yA3rO3olgsqmsXk)

VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol), allows you to have telephone
service through an Internet connection. Some VoIP programs, such as
Skype and Zoom, can also do video conferencing.

![Image of Using a video conferencing
program](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/Ma3ba7RXjCTPOZv9nvFWRR-0Ymcni7Bv8tlT3tohJ4j2x9XVIGCPmdTx3Ah20TcKQq5HietgzefzImxwXCtPbxJskWtfo4TY4WEyaFotaR5o_5cmKF-0_3sCArAAsm1PcNY8Dc0)

Web browsers are increasingly becoming "all-in-one" programs. So you
might do Instant messaging or video conferencing within a browser.
