## Lesson 3.7

Today, there are many options for connecting to the Internet, and new
options will continue to become available as different technologies are
developed. So it's important to do some research to find the best
option for you.

There will always be a demand for greater speed and greater
convenience, so you can expect faster and more convenient Internet
services in the near future.

For example, many locations are gaining access to new 4G technologies
such as WiMAX, which allows a computer to connect to the Internet
wirelessly from anywhere within the ISP's network, much like a mobile
phone's data plan. So you'll be able to enjoy wireless Internet when
you're on the go, not just when you're at home.

![Wireless
Internet](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/EedG_VIZ4hmtCXLD2Z6kbRM3vWRYpF_CYrmxqFwo1P0-2ClZh1_rgpkrFkki68iIz80tgGPW_W1Zhv-HjDL6PM8HO8_HXkSIMmPKinriMw_XaYu7Uvh5ZaRd7PozhiJi4q62vtQ)

### Wi-Fi 6

> Wi-Fi 6 is designed to improve speed, increase efficiency and reduce
> congestion in heavy bandwidth usage scenarios.

--From <https://www.tp-link.com/us/wifi6/>

### 5G

> 5G is an investment for the next decade, and in previous mobile
> transitions, we've seen most of the big changes happening years after
> the first announcement. Take 4G, for instance. The first 4G phones in
> the US appeared in 2010. But the sorts of 4G applications that changed
> our world didn't appear until later. Snapchat came in 2012, and Uber
> became widespread in 2013. Video calls over LTE networks also became
> widespread in the US around 2013.
>
> So following that plan, while we're getting a little bit of 5G right
> now, you should expect the big 5G applications to crop up around 2021
> or 2022. Until then, things are going to be confusing as wireless
> carriers jockey for customers and mindshare.
>
> 5G stands for fifth-generation cellular wireless, and the initial
> standards for it were set at the end of 2017. But a standard doesn't
> mean that all 5G will work the same---or that we even know what
> applications 5G will enable. There will be slow but responsive 5G, and
> fast 5G with limited coverage.

--From <https://www.pcmag.com/article/345387/what-is-5g>
