# Lesson 4.3

## Address Bar

Browsers have an address bar that shows the web address (also called a URL) of the page you are on. To go to a different page, you can type an address in the address bar and then press Enter (or Return). To move your focus to the address bar, press the hotkey of **Alt + D**. If this ever doesn't work, Press **Control + L**.

## Links

Most of the time, you will get to a different page by opening a link. A link can be text or an image, and visually, it's usually formatted to stand out, so mouse users know to click on it. Many text links are blue, and they may also be underlined.

For example, [this is a link](http://www.alassist.us). It will open the Moodle homepage, and you can press **Alt + Left Arrow** to come back to this page.

A link may lead to another web page, a different part of the same page, or it could lead to a document, video, or any other type of file. With NVDA, you can use any of your link quick keys: k for link, u for unvisited link, or v for visited link. Using JAWS, you can press Tab to move to the next link, Shift + Tab to move to the previous link, V and Shift + V for the next or previous visited link, or Insert + F7 for the Links list. You can also press the **Insert + F7** hotkey to bring up the elements list. If you know what you're looking for, however, it may be faster to press **Insert + Control + F** in NVDA, or **Control + F** in JAWS, to find the item on the page. Just type what you're looking for, and press **Enter**.

### Activity

Please perform the following steps to practice using links. Remember, to switch between open windows, use **Alt + Tab**.

1. Open a new browser window, with **Control + N**.
2. Enter aidb.org in the address bar. Usually, you simply type it in, since you're already in the address bar. Once you've typed it in, press **Enter**.
3. Press the **Tab** key until you find the Locations button. This button is collapsed, which means that it's like a closed box. You have to open, or expand, it to see what's inside. Arrow around, using the Up and Down arrows, to verify that below the locations button is the "Log in" link.
4. To expand the button, press **Enter**. Expand the Locations button, and arrow down to verify that, now, below is the "AIDB Foundation" link.
5. Using the letter K, in NVDA, or Tab, for JAWS,  (for next link) find "Alabama School for the blind". You'll need to press it several times.
6. Press **Enter**. The page for the Alabama School for the Blind opens.
7. Now, press **Alt + Left Arrow** to go to the previous page.
8. On the AIDB homepage, press **Control + Home** to move to the top of the page.
9. Now, you'll look for the link you just visited. Instead of using the K key, you'll use the V key. Press the letter V until you find the link for the Alabama School for the Blind.
10. Press Enter, and you'll be on the Alabama School for the Blind page again.
11. Now, let's see what links are on this page. Press **Insert + F7** to show a list of links.
12. Find the "AIDB HOME" link and press **Enter**.
13. You'll now be on the Home page again. Now, we'll search for something.
14. Press **Insert + Control + F** and find the words "school for the blind".
15. You'll now be on the "Alabama School For the Blind" link. Press **Enter**, and you'll be on that page again.
16. Now, press **Control + W** to close the tab.

## Navigation Hotkeys

Back, to go back to the previous page in the same tab or window
: Alt + Left Arrow

Forward, to go forward to the next page in the same tab or window
: Alt + Right Arrow

Home, to go to the homepage
: Alt + Home

Open File, to open an HTML file or any other compatible file in the web browser
: Control + O

Reload, to refresh the page
: F5 or Control + R

Reload (override cache), to refresh the page, getting all files from the server and using none already stored on the computer
: Control + F5 or Control + Shift + R

Stop, to stop loading the page
: Escape

Sometimes, after opening a link, you might want to go back to the
previous page. You can do this using your browser's Back hotkey. Once
you've pressed the Back hotkey, you can press the Forward hotkey to
follow the link again.

When you use the Back and Forward hotkeys, your browser may use its web
cache to display the page. The web cache stores recently-viewed web
pages so that they don't need to be downloaded again. That's usually
good because it speeds up your web browsing, but sometimes you want to
see the most up-to-date information on the page. You can use the Refresh
hotkey (sometimes called Reload) to tell the browser to load the page
again.

If a page is taking too long to load, or if you've typed in the wrong URL, you use the Stop hotkey to stop the page from loading.

There are some instances where you don't want to use the navigation hotkeys. For example, in some online stores, you shouldn't refresh the page after purchasing an item, as it could cause you to purchase the item twice.

## Search Bar

Most browsers have a built-in search bar for performing web searches. We'll talk more about those in the next lesson.
