# Lesson 4.4

Many browsers allow you to open a link in a new tab. This allows you to
keep the current page open instead of going directly to the new page.
For example, if you're reading an article that has a link in it, you
can open the link in a new tab so that you can finish reading the
article. Then, you can go to the new tab to view the page you opened there.

![Three different tabs are open in this
window.](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/V9YCG7iiCAPwytL4LH055phisiBbLlRoBSf2ojyK8sGUn2BKeMYrF6bmbwxqwDo3AzfE7NZFMyq8wl5n0ph9vHgNCxKGiKNSghHFIj1KTckif-w70nSQeAP_xY3pvoB43LmndbA)

Tabs are designed to make browsing more convenient. You can open as many
links as you want, and they'll stay in the same browser window instead
of cluttering up your desktop with multiple windows.

- To open a new blank tab, press **Control + T**
- To open a link in a new tab, use the context menu on the link and
  select Open in New Tab (the wording may vary from browser to
  browser).
- To close a tab, press **Control + F4** or **Control + W**
- If you accidentally close a tab, you can open it back up with
  **Control + Shift + T**
- To move between open tabs, press **Control + Page Up** or **Control + Page Down** or **Control + Tab** and **Control + Shift + Tab**

![Screenshot displaying a contextual menu with options for a hyperlinked text, "www.taxfreedom.com," which is partially visible. Options such as "Open," "Open in New Tab," "Open in New Window," "Save Target As...," and "Print Target" are shown, with "Open in New Tab" currently highlighted. In the background, the text details eligibility criteria like having a low adjusted gross income, military service, or qualifying for certain tax credits.](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/E-9etciTIsKfDS9cUtGufqCz0jXGizPYh39kGO-yGHTSjBrfDFMCxaI0NPp38biLuNypHFGQGH7t4rQLCnJRHCU8U70G_DtwFqu7d4nEa6c5XCtUwVYVuUCwRfAza0T0a2QtGLg)
