Your browser can display many different types of documents, media, and
other files. But there are times when you'll want to access a file
outside your browser. Downloading enables you to do this by putting the
file on your computer in a place where you can access it.

For example, suppose you needed to complete and print a form that you
found online. You could download it to your desktop, then open it with
the appropriate program (such as Microsoft Word) to edit it.

How to Download a File
----------------------

If you click on a link to a file, it may download automatically, but
sometimes it just opens within your browser instead of downloading. To
prevent it from opening in the browser, you can use your
**application** or **context menu** key on the link and select "Save
Target As..." (different browsers may use slightly different wording).
You'll be able to choose the folder where the file is saved. It is
important to remember which folder you saved your file in so you can
locate it later.

Since the process of downloading a file varies from site to site, it may
require some practice and experimentation.

![Downloading a
file](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/dh_vCHKblYrkOP_43w5SHYrKqIGKvJlg72Qjcxsy5VJnfu4bv5lkW7AjFnPH1wkql65RM4ALYZGAC98iDNyPVWBHddceL5lBt30dBT9Tu_NkbkhWRqEauDvhwLHdyt3KUYxi1r0)

For various reasons, many sites do not allow you to download content.
For example, YouTube does not offer a way to download its videos.

## Saving Images

Sometimes you might want to save an image to your computer. To do this,
use your **application** or **context menu** key on the link and select
"Save Picture As...".

![Saving a
picture](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/PCDxH8Qksi2rJGD5Q9QN3grbS7YbZuXYLXV6YzB_vLFKAZtRg2d2DrH4sjdtwqvCnCGXSS6sLg3QZAROQrl9mjd0i_O5gUBcnjCNi0vCIHYF4oyjuMWwZRbqPpH47M0Si36_KGQ)

Some sites do not allow certain images to be saved to your computer,
like Google in its image search.
