# Lesson 5.3

After you do a search, glance over the first page of search results. Did
it return what you are looking for, or is it just a lot of unnecessary
"junk?"

If your search results don't seem very good, you may need to try
different search terms. Remember, the search engine can't read your
mind; it just looks for matching words. For example, if you just search
for the word polish, the search engine doesn't know whether you're
looking for shoe polish or a history of the Polish language!

You could improve your search results by searching for shoe polish.
However, that still may return a wide variety of web sites, such as:

-   Stores that sell shoe polish
-   Guides on how to polish shoes
-   The history of shoe polish
-   And probably much more

To get the best results, ask yourself: What exactly am I looking for?
Specific terms usually return better results.

## Related Searches

A search engine will often recommend related searches that may be more
specific than the search terms you used. Related searches are usually
listed at the bottom of the page. Bing also lists them to the left of
the search results.

![Related searches can help you narrow down your
search.](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/l8zNTRRi62yrWyBKkWfzr7fkhkc7-Ji_ONUPYwRY38aGckhDOg3iK0MwdbWzVWSofMY1w4z9yEaEmvjmnQZMZIm0zjPrH-T4qhwWzashURwA6M4YOtG6-40F4kkcPs8f8i4UAE0)

## Advertisements

Search engines may include advertisements along with the search results.
These ads are picked by the search engine based on your search terms,
and they look a lot like the actual search results. While they may be
useful in some cases, it's usually more effective to focus on the
"regular" search results.

Google puts its ads (which it calls Sponsored Links) at the top and to
the right of the search results.

![Ads are usually at the top and to the
right](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/U-keOq50vXFaEZ8HDpSlPrjx3OllnAp2UYhnOg5jijc2naU1kd8xUXkg_Hc09Ot1SSEWJuq8a9GUMaKChiZQnoGhHmAW9NYRBd5J310zE4bd8pN377B9gXncHj0wi34xqP8BvIs)

## Navigating search results with a screen reader

Headings are key to search result navigation. Use the “H” key, when in
Browse mode, to skip to the next heading. In most search engines,
search results are among them. Try this with Google. Complete the
following steps by reading each step, then when applicable, using the
**Control + Tab** command to switch from the new tab back to this one,
to read the next step.

- Open a new tab with **Control + T**.
- The address bar can also be used as a search bar, so type “screen
  reader” into the box.
- Press **Enter**. The Google search engine will load with your
  results.
- Press “H” to navigate to the next heading. Keep pressing “H” until
  “search results” is spoken.
- The next time you press “H”, you will be on the first search result,
  or the first heading of a group of similar search results.
- To find out if you are on a search result, or just another group
  starter, listen for the word “link.”
  - If you hear the word “link,” you’ve found a search result.
  - If not, press “h” again, until you hear a “link.”
- Find the result "screen reader - Wikipedia" and press **Enter** to go there.
- Read the page if you want, then close the tab.

[Move on to lesson 5.4](https://moodle.alassist.us/mod/url/view.php?id=2645)