There are dozens of keyboard shortcuts that allow you to read content by
line, sentence, word, character, etc. The following is a list of
essential reading shortcuts. With these shortcuts, you should be able to
navigate through most content.

Numpad +
:   Start reading at the screen review position

NVDA + Down Arrow
:   Start reading at the current position

Control
:   Stop Reading

NVDA + Up Arrow
:   Current line

Control + Left Arrow
:   Previous word

Control + Right Arrow
:   Next word

Up Arrow
:   Prior line

Down Arrow
:   Next line

Right Arrow
:   Previous character

Left Arrow
:   Next character

F5
:   Page refresh

Control + F5
:   Hard page refresh. If you get lost, this is how you can start over.

NVDA + Control + Up Arrow
:   Rate of speech increase

NVDA + Control + Down Arrow
:   Rate of speech decrease

Try these keys with the sample passage below:

### Sample Passage

In the dreamtime, many ages ago, the cluster of stars which we now
know as the Pleiades, or the Seven Sisters, were seven beautiful ice
maidens. Their parents were a great rugged mountain whose dark head
was hidden in the clouds, and an ice-cold stream that flowed from the
snow-clad hills. The Seven Sisters wandered across the land, with
their long hair flying behind them like storm clouds before the
breeze. Their cheeks were flushed with the kiss of the sun, and in
their eyes was hidden the soft, gray light of the dawn. So entrancing
was their beauty, that all men loved them, but the maidens\'
affections were as cold as the stream which gave them birth, and they
never turned aside in their wanderings to gladden the hearts of men.
