# Lesson 6.2

Sighted users visually navigate through web content in a number of ways.
They skim for headings, lists, tables, etc. Most of these methods are
available to screen reader users if the site is correctly structured and
well organized. To navigate forward and backward through links and form
elements on the page, use **Tab** and **Shift + Tab**. Other shortcuts
are listed below.

## Quick Keys

The following Quick Keys will help you navigate common page elements.

-   H: Headings
-   D: Landmarks
-   1 - 6: Headings level 1-6
-   F: Forms
-   T: Tables
-   B: Buttons
       
       Tip: The Search button is often the first button on a page. You
        can often navigate to the search form by pressing B, to jump to
        the button and then **Shift + Tab** to navigate to the previous
  form element -- the search text box. Or you can just press "e" for "edit" for
  an even faster way to get to the search box.

-   L: Lists
-   I: Items in a list

Shift + Quick Key will allow you to navigate through elements in
reverse order (works with most Quick Keys). Several other Quick Keys
are available in the [NVDA User
Guide](https://www.nvaccess.org/files/nvda/documentation/userGuide.html).
Reading the user guide will give you much more information about NVDA and how it
works.

## Other navigation shortcuts

-   Insert + Control + F: Find text on the page
-   Insert + F7: Elements List - lists page links, headings, and landmarks
-   Ctrl + Home: Top of the page
-   Ctrl + End: Bottom of the Page
-   Alt + D: Browser address bar

To practice reading and navigation commands, try refreshing the page and
navigating to this section of the page. Try navigating by heading, list,
finding text, and using the elements list.

[Move on to lesson 6.3](https://moodle.alassist.us/mod/url/view.php?id=2649)
