Browser bookmarks are just like physical ones. They allow you to save a
favorite page you visit often, like your favorite social network,
important pages for work or school, the home page with all of your
courses, or your favorite informational site to a list, which you can
quickly access.

## Adding a bookmark

Visit a page you would like to visit often. Try this with [This page.
Trust me, you'll love this one](http://www.alassist.us). Open that link
in a new tab, by pressing the **Applications** or **Context menu** key,
Arrowing Down to "Open in New Tab," and pressing **Enter**. Now, you can
press **Control + Tab** to go between that page and this one.

To add this new page to bookmarks, press **Control + D** for "Add". A
dialog box will appear, allowing you to change its name, put it into a
folder, and other things before you confirm that you want to add it.
Press the "OK" button, or simply press **Enter** on the "Name" field.
Your Bookmark is now added.

Managing Bookmarks
------------------

You may now want to simply look through the list of bookmarks you have,
to open them or otherwise manage them. To do this:

-   Press **Alt + F** to open the browser menu. If using Firefox,
    navigate using the **Right Arrow** to the Bookmarks" menu and press
    **Down Arrow**. If using Google Chrome, simply Down Arrow to the
    Bookmarks menu and press *Right Arrow to open it.
-   Arrow Down to the bookmark you want.
    -   To use the Bookmark, press **Enter**.
    -   To manage it, press the **Applications** key, then Down Arrow to
        the action you want to perform.
-   If you simply want to exit the Bookmarks menu, press **Escape** a
    few times to return to the page you were on before entering the
    menu.

## deleting Bookmarks

Sometimes, a site you thought might be interesting turns out to be
rather boring, or a bookmark you added in the last section turns out to
be a site that you visit every weekday. You don't necessarily *have* to
delete bookmarks, as they take up very little space, but it may be good
to clear away space to tidy up your bookmarks list of ones that you
don't use. Let's practice deleting that bookmark to the new site you
added in the "Adding Bookmark" section.

-   Open the Bookmarks Menu
    -   In Firefox, press **Alt + B**
    -   In Chrome, press **Alt + F, then B**
-   Press the **Up Arrow** until you find the bookmark you want to
    delete
-   Press the **Applications** key
-   Arrow to "delete" and press **Enter**

When you have practiced these sections until you are confident in how to
add, manage, and delete bookmarks, read through the appendix.

After the completion of all lessons, you will be given a performance
test. study well, but there is no need to be nervous, as this test can
be taken again if you fail the first time.
